# Starting from ZERO

## CI & QA

----

> Continuous Integration (CI) is a development practice that requires developers to integrate code into a shared repository several times a day. Each check-in is then verified by an automated build, allowing teams to detect problems early.
By integrating regularly, you can detect errors quickly, and locate them more easily.

---

## Our Objectives:

- Learn how to run some QA tests
- Delegate tests to a task runner
- Run the test task to stop broken pull requests

---

<!-- .slide: data-background="#E5623D" data-transition="zoom" class="orange-slide" -->
# Warning

## We're using ES6
*(which you know thanks to **papa**...)*

---

# Let's start

Use a brand new repo, an existing one ...

...or fork **/alexcanessa/ci-tools-workshp**

----

## What do you need?

Simply fork http://github.com/alexcanessa/ci-tools-workshp and run `npm install`, it's everything in the package.json already!

----

### 1. Config `.eslintrc.json`

[env config](http://eslint.org/docs/user-guide/configuring)

#### Set the environment up

```json
{
	"env": {
		"node": true,
		"es6": true
	}
}
```

#### Add some rules

```json
{
	...,
	"rules": {
		"semi": [2, "always"]
	}
}
```

[See all rules](http://eslint.org/docs/rules/)

#### Use a plugin

You can use ready-to-use setups, such as [StandardJS](http://standardjs.com/), adding custom rules after this.
The file `.eslint-full.json` contains the plugin, which you already installed running `npm install`.

```json
{
	...,
	"extends": [
		"standard"
	]
}
```

----

### 2. Config `Gruntfile.js`

Create the `eslint` task.

```js
eslint: {
    options: {
        fix: true
    },
    target: [
        'Gruntfile.js',
        'src/**/*.js'
    ]
}
```
----

## Run the test with

```shell
grunt test
```

and this is it!

---

<!-- .slide data-backgrund="#4EC595" class="orange-slide" -->

# TravisCI

Let's now run the same test on [Travis](https://travis-ci.org/).

----

### Configuration

Language and version are already in the `travis.yml`

Add those steps:

```yaml
- before_script:
	- {{ command }}

- script:
	- {{ command }}
```

----

**¡Little tip!**

You can cache folders, such as `node_module` to make the builds faster

```yaml
cache:
  directories:
    - node_modules
```

----

### Set up TravisCI

... and sync it to your repo.

----

### Job done!

Now on every push / pull request, travis will run a build!

---

# Let's see what you've got

And make sure you push everything.